[Music]
was so complex in france
i mean if you if you can automate
payroll in france
then you can automate payroll everywhere
that's something we've done in france
and it works like a charm
we are growing really fast at pay feet
say the uk and germany we want to serve
every business in the world
that's what it takes to build a future
european giant
the three of us we share the same values
the same passion and the same
willingness to build something that has
never been built before
what is really important to us is
everyone is as happy as we are
it's not just like ping pong tables and
chocolate fountains it's all about
recognition i guess you know knowing
that you couldn't exist
without the other
we are automating everything simplifying
everything each time you are growing you
need to give other people
responsibilities and just let them work
more customers more features more
benefited more countries more happiness
a lot of more like millions of employers
and employees that can be happier thanks
to what we are doing at paces
[Music]
good afternoon everyone it's a pleasure
to be here in
sunny barcelona now
and today we're gonna talk about the
seven secrets to a successful smb go to
market strategy
my name is uh philippe bottery i'm a
partner with excel so we're a global
venture firm we started in silicon
valley for about 40 years ago now and we
realized that second valley did not have
the monopoly on innovation
and this led up to open
an office in london from which we cover
all of europe uh and israel
and we do
anything from a seed investment of
a million dollar of up to a growth
equity check of uh 100 million
and we do
fast okay the lots of sound um
does everybody doesn't love sass here
who doesn't like sass no one good
uh so we do obsess um and we had the
chance to uh to partner with uh with
great uh companies like atlassian
docusign
ui pass
and of course pay fit um so we had the
chance to uh to lead the uh the series
in pay fits that was in uh
2017 if i remember well
super excited about that and i'm here
with uh fioma who is a
the founder and uh and ceo of the
company so firma maybe just
to get started do you want to just give
a quick snapshot on uh pay fit and so
everybody knows what uh the company does
yes sir thanks uh philip for the
introduction i'm a firmer co-founder and
a ceo of papeet a company we created
with two of my best friends back in 2015
so
more than seven years ago we loved
sas at that time even if we were pretty
young to
exactly
know what sas was about but we learned
along the way and we built pay feet so
payroll a nature company that help
entrepreneurs digitize payroll and hr
we grew very fast in the past seven
years so
we went from three founders to a
thousand people
we are now serving uh
thousands of uh customers so more than
seven thousand customers all over europe
in france in spain in germany and in uk
and we are helping uh
uh hundreds of thousands of employees
strive uh in their uh in their smes and
as philip
mentioned we raised
some funds
within our during our history and uh we
raised the funds with axel five years
ago to accelerate on our growth at the
time we were only a team of 30 people
when uh i got the chance to partner with
philip so that was really not the same
company that
we
we have today so happy to be there with
you today and discuss
a few secrets that we've learned over
the past few years
thanks um thank you mom so
when you think about a sas company there
are
only two things
which do really matter the first thing
is building the product the second thing
is selling the product
everything else is just to support these
uh these two motions but sometimes the
product sells itself
or you want the product to sell itself
and in the case of
smb this is actually something that is
critical so we're
let's start with uh secret number one
which is uh self-serve when it comes to
products
is non-negotiable for for smb so
firmware
this is uh you know this comes from you
this is uh the number one thick rate was
the most important
why was it so important for you to
develop very early on uh a self-serve or
actually to think about the product in a
way that it would be self-serve
so in the in the beginning when we
started pay fees back in 2015
we built the
product and we built uh the
sales funnel to have pay feed self-serve
because we wanted our customers
entrepreneurs to become an autonomous in
signing up for pay fit
but we had a few challenges that made us
realize it was super complicated to have
customers autonomous on the transition
from a payroll solution to another one
and so it took us years to get this
challenger uh corrector and uh
this this uh this year we are still
working on this and we are still
building an angina that can uh you know
make your customers autonomous discover
your product because uh if you don't
have this uh angina then you are forced
to have a manual conversations with all
your prospects when they discover your
product which is fine when you are
selling to enterprise and to big
customers because you can invest a lot
in sales you have a complex product you
have a sales cycle that can last for
a few quarters for a few years when you
are talking to entrepreneurs when you
are selling to the mass to smbs you
can't do that because either your
prospects won't
uh get the chance to wait
for your salespeople to talk to to to
you so they will just go and see another
competitor
or either uh they will uh just uh won't
reach the the end of the of the funnel
because they want to be autonomous in
discovering the product i know there are
a lot of entrepreneurs in the room i
know you are part of the one person of
the market that want to feel autonomous
when you are discovering a new sas
product so if you are looking at a
product that don't have a self-serve
funnel you probably will be
just ejected from the funnel and the
system won't get you so that's something
i would recommend to invest very early
on and that uh
i think i would
i would do it better if i had to do it
again at uh i paid it
just one one precision on self-serve
it's not
either sales either self-serve the two
goes
together which means that there will be
some personas some prospects that will
be fully autonomous
along the way there will be prospects
that would want a new payroll solution
but that will never be autonomous
like for example my father my father you
know he will never be autonomous and a
self-serving to change a payroll
solution for his little company but if i
have a self-serve funnel i can help him
discover the product and i can make our
sales team save a lot of time
in some parts of the funnel
and it's not about i mean it is also
very important for
customers to be able to discover and try
the product on their own but even when
they're customers especially on payroll
which is very complex with rule changing
you also want them to be self-serve
during their entire life cycle right
so you want them to self on board and
make the whole transition from the
former payroll solution to the new one
to to pay fit and then you also want to
have
the least support and declaration
processes
possible which is a big challenge when
we are talking about payroll but which
should be
the goal of every sas
targeting smbs automates a lot of things
through
the product
through also the
marketing or customer communication that
you are sending your customers
and can you maybe just um
give a couple of examples of how
you have evolved the product to make it
self-serve right because at the
beginning you have your products
some of the customers are selling maps
the most advanced maybe self-serve
others are not but how do you understand
where where is the workflow
broken
right when you need any uh an in-person
intervention so how do you spot spot
that how do you prioritize the
intervention and the changes on the
product to basically smooth out the flow
so that over time you get more you
increase the portion of customers that
can be self-serve
yeah that's a good question so in some
businesses uh you just uh have a look
and uh see that you are losing prospects
uh on the under on the funnel looking at
your conversion rates to us it's very
easy we just uh have a look at
when prospects or customers are reaching
out to them because we're talking about
payroll we're not talking about a nice
thing to do you know our customers are
forced to process payroll and this is
very important for them so the metric
that we have to uh
to assess if we are doing a great job in
making our customers autonomous on
discovering self-onboarding and then
using the product is the number of
tickets we get from them or the numbers
of errors that we can see
along the along the way but it's true
that uh you need to prioritize that with
the building of new features which is
not always something very
easy to do but uh you know i would call
it uh like a part of the foundations of
uh
of your uh of your product that's not
new features that's not uh shiny but
that the
that's the the basis of your of your
growth angina because at some point if
you think that you are going to grow at
scale with just
uh spending more euros on marketing or
adding more sales people in your team
you know that that can't scale
unfortunately
so you you mentioned talking about
products that having a product led sales
motion is very important but that's you
know usually it's not enough and you
need to complement that with uh with
salespeople
i mean the difference like when you're
selling to enterprise you have
you know fewer sales reps
more expensive high quota
when you're selling to smb you have a
lot of sales rep
and you know obviously lower quota and
lower cost so this leads us to the
secret number two
which is the volume gain
right when it comes to sales talent
so you put as a number two it was very
interesting that you know number one was
product number two is like how do i
really hire and scale
um
uh my sales team so
why why was it so important is it like
so hard to hire
uh sales people selling to smb like how
do you how do you think about it how do
you set up the infrastructure to make
this um as efficient and scalable as
possible
so yeah as you put it philip when you
are selling to smbs you are not looking
for the same
sales rep as when you are selling to
enterprise so basically you need people
that are a bit more junior that have a
bit less experience that have also uh
not the salaries that
sdrs or ais that are selling to big corp
are
are having but you need more of them
so this this is why it is the the volume
game so you have a lot of people that
are
wanting to learn a new job a new sales
job and they come to pay fit so that
they can learn this job and then become
an sdr and then either a manager other
nae so you need to build a career path
to make sure that those young people
that join you and you'll need a lot of
them can evolve them in your company
and you need to just train them which is
which is and you need a lot of them it's
really different than when you are
serving uh enterprise and when you need
just a few aes that have that like 10 15
20 years of experience that are paid
a lot of money and that can uh you know
not
evolve but keep this individual
contributor job for the coming years
so that's why it's just so different so
you just need to know when you are
serving smbs that it's different than
serving
enterprise and that you need to go and
look for the right people to join you
so build the right hiring machine and
then build the right
hr processes so that those people can
stay with you
during
numerous years and not just
one or two years as it is the case
unfortunately in most sas companies
where we see a bigger attrition
with uh with salespeople sometimes uh
more than 50 percent a year
and where is it at pay fit right now
sorry where is the attrition at pay fit
in your sales team just to give
at the moment it's around 35 which is
which is
not bad given the market and uh
and uh and the the fact that it's uh
intrinsically higher in sales team
and uh maybe can you just give a um
a few numbers just to to help the the
people here on how do you plan your
sales capacity so what is if you need to
make 100 for the year
what's your quota coverage of the 100
that you want to make and how do you
think about increasing your sales
capacity
to make sure that you meet the goal for
next year is it something where every
quarter you have a batch of sales people
coming is it every month how do you ramp
them i think would be great to
click one level deeper into uh into the
planning
it's very important uh this sales hiring
planning because uh in a self-driven
sas business model it's what uh drives
growth so basically when you want to
look at your growth from one year to
another you need to annually plan how
many people you are going to hire and
then look at the
improvement in terms of productivity so
you plan this annually and then you can
review it you know quarterly and then
you can
make a new set people come each and er
each and er and every month but it's
really what is uh driving the
the the growth and it's not
uh ease
so people closing deals that are driving
you know the figures the growth but it's
the sdrs and especially sdr albans which
will uh you know generate
new leads
on top of
the leads that will be generated by uh
marketing
and
so
now that you have so you have your
product self-serve
you have figured out your how to hire
and kind of scale your your go to market
team
now how do you keep everybody together
right and that's the secret number three
which is don't underestimate the
importance of culture this is the glue
holding your company together another
way to
describe secret number three would be
the barbecue test
right i think this is one of the things
that was a very original that you put in
place so maybe can you start with uh
with that i think it was a very good
practice yeah we
we created this bbq test which is
actually not a bbq test because there is
no bbq uh but that we created when we
were
eight in the company when we wanted to
create an informal time after the hiring
interview so that uh candidates and
current pay fitters could meet each
other
an informal way and that is something
we are really happy
with and that continued
today i think that when you are playing
the volume game in terms of hiring and
that you need a lot of people in your
teams to grow
you need to be good at uh making sure
that the culture is real and that is
lived
by your by your people that's super
important to have high engagement and to
limit the attrition especially in sales
team so i know that uh
jason nemkin
often uh talk about this you know the
celebration
that is happening at the end of uh the
quarter for sales team is like almost
as important if not more important than
uh the bonus
a sales team will get i i've seen that
over the past
five years it's
really really really crazy so
everywhere you need to celebrate
your success as a team as a company but
especially in
sales team when you hit the numbers when
you
you know you're in success in a given
quarter celebration is a
is everything
do you have a gong
sorry do you have a gong
a gong we used to have one
how long did it last a big gong but uh
yeah after uh a hundred people in the
company uh it was a hard to to keep that
because you know we are uh acquiring uh
more than 100 customers each and every
week
and so
it was a
it was ringing quite often yeah so when
you get rid of the gong it's actually a
very good sign
that's a that's a key milestone
great so you've um you've hired yourself
team you keep them motivated with a you
know a very very strong culture
so now that leads to now you have to
face the customer
right
and when you face the customer that
leads us to secret number four which is
be transparent about pricing
and keep it simple
um
so
on pricing i mean there are two
line of thoughts on pricing i think one
line is
let's keep it simple so that the
customer can really understand it easily
it's very transparent and it's clear
and there is another line of thought
which is
well actually if you make your pricing a
bit complex
and a bit harder to understand
then it's much easier to make changes
and obviously to increase your price
over time which is you know as a startup
you always start with pricing law
because you want the customer count and
then start pricing on value and you
increase your price but if the price is
very transparent then may become harder
so
how did you think about the the pricing
for for pay fees and for you and for
smbs um for what you're doing why was it
so important to have a very simple
pricing
so
in the beginning i think we made
a few mistakes because uh we had uh
too complex pricing as we were shipping
new features new experiences and uh we
were not that transparent for our
customers and so we evolved them and we
changed that so that uh when you are a
customer you can uh just look at uh the
landing page and uh see okay that's for
me i'm not an expert in payroll in hr
because i'm an entrepreneur i'm the
buyer i will be the user okay that's
simple that's transparent i want to i
want to get it so we changed a lot of so
what did you change so what what did you
start with which was not transparent and
then how did you evolve it so at the
beginning you know we had payroll and
then hr and then we added features and
then we had on top of different plans we
had uh add-ons and the rules uh the
pricing rules of the add-ons were
different than the than the plants you
know either you have ex-employees you
use it from a month to another so we
decided
uh not to over optimize pricing so that
it can uh
just fit the requirements of the mass
and so that uh it's uh you you may you
may think that you you
you you are
losing money on the table
but
you're not when you have a transparent
and simple
pricing structure you know you are just
to get back to this self-serve funeral
you don't lose your prospects then when
you want to change your pricing offers
the communication to your customers
don't get too bad
don't lead to bad
nps because your customers will
understand the changes they will seize
the value that you are bringing
them with the new features the new
experiences that you invested a lot in
and that you are releasing so i would
advise you even if you are worried that
you will
put money on the on the table that to to
be super simple super transparent
because once again you are not talking
to experts to buyers that are working in
big corps you are talking to
entrepreneurs
who will be buying your stuff
but not be experts in that in that
domain so
just be be caring about them
okay and how do you um
and this leads to secret number five
like how do you get
the awareness how do you get the how do
you build the top of your funnel how you
get your customers
um interested and your your secret
number five was build a b2c
rather than the b2b marketing engine so
for a b2b company it's a bit unusual
so tell us more about what you've tried
what worked what didn't work
and why did you come to this conclusion
yeah so what i call b2b marketing is uh
for example uh
have a big big big big events and uh
have a lot of uh of budget for those uh
big physical events that were quite
numerous before the the covida era uh
that's the uh kind of uh events that you
are investing in when you are
talking to enterprise because the people
that will buy that will decide are there
clearly when you are
talking to a thousands of prospects each
and every week you can't rely on that
you need to find a very scalable way so
that your brand becomes famous with the
mass and with uh yeah millions of people
in europe that's the only way to build
some awareness and uh to build uh the uh
the uh the the
the fennel so
we were not
uh
great at that in the in the first place
because we didn't know
uh that good that uh our segmentation
was for uh for assemblies and so that's
why we are using a lot of marketing
techniques that
companies striving with
b2c
are using
because you are playing the volume games
in terms of lead and you need
you need that strategy if you want to uh
bring enough leads into your funeral at
the beginning it may not be a problem
because there are so many prospects out
there that are
applying all good b2b marketing reaching
out without bomb can be great but at
some point you reach
a level
where if you don't have the great brand
awareness that most of successful b2c
companies have been building
you will eat a sailing glass i guess
so we talked about several levels for uh
for growth so we talked about products
as a first level we talked about sales
we talked about culture about marketing
but your secret number six
uh was about customer satisfaction so
customer satisfaction is actually your
first level
for growth
so why that because you would think
intuitively that sales is probably your
best number one level right
i think that on top of sales and uh
marketing and a
beautiful product i think that making
your customers happy with what you are
delivering them is uh the most important
level for growth it's hard to get
to to this idea it's hard to trade
uh and to understand than the one point
of nps
is one point of growth but uh i truly
believe it and especially when you are
selling to uh smbs
because once again you need your brand
to strive people will be talking to each
other one entrepreneur will be
recommending your solution to another
and uh
if you don't have a if you have a
customer that had a bad experience with
you that can kill you
another 5 10 20 deals in the coming few
years and you you will be
able to spend marketing you will be able
to hire sales people if you have those
unhappy customers
that can kill
the growth engine that you would have
built
uh in in parallel so that's why
uh you need to grow fast to keep your
customers make them happy make them make
sure that they buy more
from you with different products with
more seats but it will also drive the
acquisition of
new customers new prospects that will
hear from testimonials or from
references that you want you you you
will you will not be even aware of but
that will play a role in the decision to
get to talk to you or to just buy
from you yeah and your happy customers
are growing
every year by on average what 15
yeah that's true so you have 15 of
growth that basically just come from
your existing customer which is for an
smb business is pretty uh remarkable
yeah that's another reason why you need
to keep your customers current customer
bases happy is because uh without doing
anything in terms of growth you will
grow thanks to them and that's uh having
the secrets of
most of successful sas company what we
call a net retention rate that is uh
above 100
meaning that
you will grow just by relying on your
current customers bases which is
the
yeah
which makes sas
which personally makes us very very
magical
nice and now so we're getting to our
last secrets of secrets
number seven which is about going
international
so get your foundations right before
going international tools and processes
are vital so firma tell us a bit more
about your experience going
international
what worked what went wrong
yeah we made a quite a number of
mistakes with this
one quite obvious was to go
international
before having a crm
implemented so
we opened spain we opened germany
from france without having a sales force
you know we were we had our own
in-house uh sales force and that was a
mistake because
when you go international
you had so much complexity compared to
uh one country so that can be true with
other european countries that can be
true if for most of sas you go to the
u.s
so i would highly recommend to have uh
you know all the tools and processes and
the learning from your sales team
uh that is uh quite clear and quite good
before adding another layer of
complexity and going international so
that's true
for your entire funnel not just uh you
know the tools that your sales team will
be using but
how your
marketing engine is built and then
how you uh
pour sales people into that
gross engine
well thank you for your mail so we're
down uh to the last seven seconds so i'm
just gonna recap what uh we discussed
today so steven secrets to scale your
smb go to market one i think product
self-serve non-negotiable for smb
to be prepared to pay to play the volume
game when it comes to talents people
everything make sure that you build a
scalable hiring engine for your sales
team
three don't underestimate the importance
of culture holds your company together
holds your culture together
make sure you celebrate your successes
with the sales team
four be transparent about pricing keep
it very simple
five think about your marketing engine
as a b2c engine not a b2b engine it's
all about volume
six customer sat is your first level of
for growth
and seven make sure you get your
foundations right before going
international make sure that your tools
and processes are well set before you
start to replicate them in other
countries
well thank you very much it was pleasure
to be uh to be here today
[Music]
you